README.md, before:

# sequel-rake

Provides useful rake tasks when working with the awesome Sequel gem.

The `database.yml` must be located at `./database.yml` or `./config/database.yml` in
order to be located.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'sequel-rake'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install sequel-rake

## Usage

```ruby
# Rakefile

require 'sequel/rake'
Sequel::Rake.load!
```

```
$ bundle exec rake ...

sequel:init             # Creates a database.yml file
sequel:generate[name]   # Generate a new migration file `sequel:generate[create_books]`
sequel:migrate[version] # Migrate the database (you can specify the version with `db:migrate[N]`)
sequel:rollback[step]   # Rollback the database N steps (you can specify the version with `db:rollback[N]`)
sequel:remigrate        # Undo all migrations and migrate again
```

## TODO

* Rollback to previous version
* Write some tests
* Seeds

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/sandelius/sequel-rake. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add a lot of functionality
*   `MigrationFile` class added for object-oriented operations with these files
*   Add many tasks:
    *   `reversion`: set the current time version to the specific migration file
    *   `disable`: add the disabling extension to the specific migration file
    *   `enable`: remove the disabling extension from the name of the specific migration file
    *   `list`: print the list of migrations files on the screen
    *   `check`: print existing but not applied migrations, and applied but not existing
*   Add `alias_task` method in `tasks.rake` file
    *   Add `new` alias for `generate` task
    *   Add `run` alias for `migrate` task
*   Migrate not only by the specified numerical version,
    but also by the specified part of the migration filename
*   Replace `Sequel::Migrator.apply` with `Sequel::Migrator.run` (for options)
*   Rename the `migrations` option to `migrations_dir` (for greater clarity)

All these changes are from a real visited and developing project, which is more than a year old.

And all these chages are tested in it.

README.md, after:

# sequel-rake

Provides useful rake tasks when working with the awesome Sequel gem.

The `database.yml` must be located at `./database.yml`
or `./config/database.yml` in order to be located.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'sequel-rake'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install sequel-rake

## Usage

```ruby
# Rakefile

require 'sequel/rake'
Sequel::Rake.load!
```

```
$ bundle exec rake ...

sequel:check                    # Check applied migrations
sequel:disable[filename]        # Disable migration
sequel:enable[filename]         # Enable migration
sequel:generate[name]           # Generate a new migration file
# alias: sequel:new[name]
sequel:list                     # Show all migrations
sequel:migrate[target,current]  # Migrate the database (you can specify the versions with `db:migrate[target,current]`)
# alias: sequel:run[target,current]
sequel:remigrate                # Undo all migrations and migrate again
sequel:reversion[filename]      # Change version of migration to latest
sequel:rollback[step]           # Rollback the database N steps (you can specify the version with `db:rollback[N]`)
```

## TODO

* Write some tests
* Seeds

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/sandelius/sequel-rake. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
